title: 'Shortcuts and Hotkeys'
body:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h1>Shortcuts and Hotkeys</h1><h2>In the Design Pane:</h2><p><strong>Quick Copy:&nbsp;</strong>Alt-drag any control to create a duplicate of it (and any other selected controls as well); hold down the shift key during this process to limit the initial drag to either the horizontal or vertical directions.</p><p><strong>Restrict Horizontal or Vertical Movement:&nbsp;</strong>Hold down the shift key while dragging any control to restrict its movement to either the horizontal or vertical directions.<br></p><p><strong>Move Controls:&nbsp;</strong>Select a control and press the up/down/left/right arrow keys to move the control 1 pixel in those directions; hold down the shift key while pressing the arrow keys to move the control by 10 pixels per click instead. If you have the grid visible and horizontal or vertical snap-to-grid options selected (right-click or, on the Mac, control click, on the module background to set grid options), the arrow keys will move the control by units of the grid size (i.e., if the grid size is set to 20 pixels, controls will move 20 pixels per key press).<br></p><p><strong>Resize Controls:&nbsp;</strong>Select a control, hold down the control key, and press the left/right/up/down arrow keys to resize the control by one pixel per key press - right and down arrows to make it larger, left and up arrows to make it smaller. This won’t resize the control if its size is locked or if it’s a control for which resizing isn’t allowed, such as audio and MIDI jacks.<br></p><p><strong>Change Z-Order:&nbsp;</strong>Select a control and press the tab key to make the next control in the z-order the selected foreground control. Shift-tab cycles in the opposite direction.<br></p><p><strong>Select Control:&nbsp;</strong>Hold down the control key while clicking on a control to select it without deselecting any other selected controls.<br></p><p><strong>Select Controls:&nbsp;</strong>Click on the module background and drag to generate a bounding rectangle; after releasing the mouse button, any controls partially or fully within that rectangle will be selected. Hold down the control key while dragging to select controls inside the bounding rectangle without deselecting controls outside the rectangle.<br></p><p><strong>Delete Controls:&nbsp;</strong>Click on a control and press the “Delete” key (on the Mac, the Delete key on the numeric keypad) to delete the control.<br></p><p><strong>Control Context Menu:&nbsp;</strong>Right-click or control-click (Mac) on a control for a popup menu that lets you bring the selected control to the front or back of the z-order, lock or unlock the control’s position or size, duplicate or delete the control, and link selected controls so that selecting one will always select the other as well.<br></p><p><strong>Module Background Menu:&nbsp;</strong>Right-click or control-click (Mac) on the module background for a popup menu that lets you lock or unlock the sizes or positions of all controls on the module at once; edit grid visibility, size, and snap-to-grid settings; or select all the controls on the module.<br></p><p><br></p><h2>In the Code Editor:</h2><p><strong>Toggle Breakpoint:&nbsp;</strong>F9 (Windows) or command-backslash (Mac) to toggle a breakpoint at the current line of code<br></p><p><strong>Find Text:&nbsp;</strong>Ctrl-F (Windows) or Command-F (Mac) to open the search interface<br></p><p><strong>Find Next:&nbsp;</strong>F3 (Windows) or Command-G (Mac) to select the next search result; Shift-F3 (Windows) or Command-Shift G (Mac) to select the previous one. Only applicable when the search interface is open.<br></p><p><strong>Copy:&nbsp;</strong>Ctrl-C (Windows) or Command-C (Mac) to copy the currently selected text<br></p><p><strong>Paste:&nbsp;</strong>Ctrl-V (Windows) or Command-V (Mac) to paste text from the clipboard<br></p><p><strong>Cut:&nbsp;</strong>Ctrl-X (Windows) or Command-X (Mac) to cut the currently selected text<br></p><p><strong>Undo/Redo&nbsp;</strong>Ctrl-Z (Windows) or Command-Z (Mac) to undo text editing; Ctrl-Y (Windows) or Command-Y (Mac) to redo.<br></p><p><strong>Indent/Unindent Code:&nbsp;</strong>Tab (WIndows) or Command-] (Mac) to indent selected text if the current selection encompasses multiple lines; Shift-Tab (Windows) or Command-[ (Mac) to unindent in the same circumstances<br></p><p><strong>Select All:&nbsp;</strong>Ctrl-A (Windows) or Command-A (Mac) to select all text<br></p><p><strong>Go To Beginning/End Of Line:&nbsp;</strong>Home key to go to the beginning of a line; End key to go to the end of it<br></p><p><strong>Go To Beginning/End Of Code:&nbsp;</strong>Ctrl-Home (Windows) or Command-Home (Mac) to go to the top of the document; Ctrl-End (Windows) or Command-End (Mac) to go to the end of it.<br></p><p><strong>Match Braces:&nbsp;</strong>Ctrl-} to go to the mate of the curly bracket or parenthesis at the caret position. If there’s a curly bracket or parenthesis to both the immediate left and right of the caret, it’ll match the one to the right. <em>(Version 1.08 and higher.)</em><br></p><p><br></p>'
template: documentation
fieldset: documentation
id: fb7030b2-2f52-46a3-8c87-f6c5c2e1487e
