title: 'ESP-20 Processor'
body:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<h1>ESP-20 Processor<br></h1>'
  -
    type: image
    alignment: left
    image:
      - /assets/esp-20.jpg
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>The Cherry Audio ESP-20 Processor recreates the slightly bizarre and endlessly useful External Signal Processor section of the classic MS-20 synthesizer. ESP-20 analyzes incoming audio and generates matching voltages for controlling oscillator pitch and envelope amplitude, letting you "play" Voltage Modular by singing, playing guitar, or any other monophonic signal source. ESP-20''s frequency converter has a much wider range than the original for increased functionality, while still retaining the inherent quirkiness.&nbsp;</p><h3>Inputs, Outputs and Controls</h3><p><strong>In jack</strong>- Plug audio signals in here.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Signal Level, Overload LED</strong>- Attenuates or amplifies incoming signal levels (up to +6 db) for optimum tracking performance; experiment with signal input level if tracking isn''t working as desired. The overload&nbsp;<em>(OL) </em>LED illuminates if the input signal is too loud.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Amp output jack</strong>- The <em>Out </em>jack beneath the <em>Amp</em>&nbsp;icon outputs the the post-<em>Signal Level </em>audio.&nbsp;<br></p><p><strong>High Cut Freq</strong>- This is a 12db per/octave, non-resonant lowpass filter and forms half of the <em>Band Pass Filter</em> block. Its intended use is to remove extraneous high frequencies in order to aid in pitch tracking.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Low Cut Freq</strong>- This is a 12db per/octave, non-resonant highpass filter and forms the other half of the&nbsp;<em>Band Pass Filter</em>&nbsp;block. Its intended use is to remove extraneous low frequencies in order to aid in pitch tracking.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Band Pass output jack</strong>- Though the aforementioned lowpass and highpass filters aren''t necessarily intended for modifying audio signals, you''re free to use them this way - the Band Pass output jack outputs the post filter(s) signal.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Threshold- </strong>This sets the level at which a 5V gate (constant) or trigger (instantaneous) voltage is output at the&nbsp;<em>Gate Out</em>&nbsp;and&nbsp;<em>Trig Out&nbsp;</em>jacks, respectively. <strong><em>Threshold </em>has no effect on the <em>Env Out </em>jack voltage</strong>.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>CV Offset- </strong>Adds or subtracts up to 5V to the <em>Freq&gt;Volt CV Out </em>jack. Typically this would be used as a tuning or transpose control when patched to an oscillator CV input. It''s generally advisable to begin with <em>CV Offset</em> at the <em>0V </em>position (remember that right-clicking a knob and selecting <em>Return To Default Value</em>&nbsp;is a quick and accurate shortcut).<br></p><p><strong>Freq&gt;Volt CV Out&nbsp;jack- </strong>Outputs the pitch CV derived from the incoming signal, as well as any offset voltage added with the <em>CV Offset </em>control. This generally will be patched to an oscillator''s <em>Keyboard CV</em> or <em>Pitch CV</em> input.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Env Out- </strong>Outputs a continuous, dynamic voltage corresponding to the ESP-20 input signal level. The <em>Signal Level </em>knob will help to dial this in.&nbsp;</p><p>For more consistent CV dynamics, patching the input signal through a compressor module prior ESP-20''s input can be helpful. (A third-party VST/AU compressor or limiter plug-in can optionally be used in conjunction with a Plug-In Host module.)&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Gate Out and LED indicator-&nbsp;</strong>Outputs a constant 5V gate signal, dependent on the <em>Threshold </em>knob setting. The LED next to it lights to indicate when a 5V gate voltage is present.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Trig Out and LED indicator-&nbsp;</strong>Outputs a very brief 5V trigger signal (1ms in length), dependent on the&nbsp;<em>Threshold&nbsp;</em>knob setting. The LED next to it flashes to indicate when a 5V trigger voltage is present.&nbsp;</p><p>The <em>Trig Out </em>jack may output constant triggers if the <em>Threshold</em> knob setting is right on the edge of triggering. We''re pretty sure this is called "hysteresis" - if this happens, a little tweak to the <em>Threshold</em> knob setting will fix it.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p><br></p><p><br></p><p><br></p><p><br></p><p><br></p>'
template: documentation
seo:
  description: 'VCF-20 Filter is an analog-style, voltage-controllable, dual highpass/lowpass filter that recreates the aggressive tones of a classic 70s Japanese monosynth.'
  image: /assets/social-modules/vcf-20-filter.png
fieldset: documentation
id: 33204fea-dcf7-47af-a5fd-ae83eda194d5
